.TH SECENV 1 "2024-05-03" "macOS X.Y" "General Commands Manual"

.SH NAME
secenv \- secures the current shell environment by setting strict security measures

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B secenv

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsecenv\fR function is a shell utility designed to secure the current shell environment.
It sets a secure PATH, clears all aliases, resets the command hash, disables core dumps, sets a strict IFS,
and enforces a secure umask setting to control default file and directory permissions.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.PP
\fBPATH\fR is set to only include '/usr/local/bin', '/bin', and '/usr/bin'.
.PP
\fBIFS\fR (Internal Field Separator) is set to space, tab, and newline, which are the most common and secure settings.
.PP
\fBUMASK\fR is set to 022, resulting in permissions of 755 for new directories and 644 for new files.

.SH "SECURITY ACTIONS"
.TP
\fBPATH\fR
Securely sets the PATH to prevent execution of unauthorized binaries.
.TP
\fBunalias -a\fR
Removes all aliases to ensure commands run as expected without alias interference.
.TP
\fBhash -r\fR
Clears the command path hash to ensure the shell rechecks the PATH for command locations.
.TP
\fBulimit\fR
Sets the hard limit for core dumps to 0 to prevent dumping of memory contents.
.TP
\fBUMASK\fR
Ensures a secure default creation mask for files and directories.

.SH USAGE
.PP
Simply run the function in any shell session to enhance security:
.RS
.nf
secenv
.fi
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR bash (1)

.SH AUTHORS
Feilian Xie <feilian1000@gmail.com>
